You guys want to give you an alert at the end of this video.
There's going to be an update.
And what happened is in this video here I'm showing you how to do a multi multi module maven built and
what happened is with Spring Boot and to dot Oh that you can figure the plug in one way to not repackage
when we transition to two down one those configuration settings have changed just slightly as not bad
but I don't know which version people are going to be running on as I go through this.
Plus it the continuity I do show upgrading Spring Boot to that one later and a later video.
So there's there's a couple of things as far as preserving the continuity of this development project
but what's going to happen here is I'm going to have an update at the end of this video so we're going
to go through this video was shot on Spring Boot Type 2 to 0 3 if I remember right.
And people that are going through the course with two doubt one are having problems due to that settings
change or they're seeing no main class found.
And at the end of this video I'm going to show you how to update that.
And I'll have an update that just want to give you a heads up so if you do hit an issue where there's
no main class found watch a short clip at the end of this video I'll show you exactly how to update
things and continue on with the project.
In this video what we want to do is we want go in and create a multi module project and this is something
I want to demonstrate and mostly from experience as you get into more complex projects.
It's convenient to split them out into multiple modules.
And what I want to do here is split out the data model.
Eventually we will evolve this to be using hibernate and JPA and spring that on top of that but until
we do that we do want to split this out into its own module and we'll get things cooking in this project
so you can see how to do a multi module build inside of maven.
So it does get a little tricky with Spring Boot and I'm going to go ahead and start working on issue
number one.
So I come back over to Intel's J and what I can do is come over here to pet clinic and say new module
and I got maven highlighted I am going to say next
and we have the reverse domain of my domain.
Google does spring framework and what I want to do is pet clinic I'm just kind of called Pet Clinic
data and we can see that we are inheriting from the group I.D. and the version.
So I'm gonna go ahead and create that and now we can see that it wants to create and Pet Clinic and
Pet Clinic data so we can see that is correct.
And I like to keep things matching.
And that's just my own personal preference.
So now we're going to have the pet dash clinic dash data.
So I'm going to go ahead and create that
of course we'll be adding that and to get and we can see here the things that were created for us.
And so nothing too much here.
Go Set head and say import changes.
And now I also want to set up a web project.
It's a new module again we're going to use maven and only name these advanced archetypes so I'm gonna
go ahead and do that again.
Good we're going to inherit everything so we'll say next
so we can say Pet Clinic Web In this module will be the whole web application.
So I'll go ahead and say next here Yeah this is just my convention I like having the dashes in there.
Now we'll say finish and we will say yes we'll go ahead and import the changes and now you can see that
I have two modules and what we want to do is move some of this stuff up here.
So we now have the model and I'm going to take this pet clinic application and move him expand that
out I'm going to move that to the java folder in the web because the model is not going to be a whole
spring Boot application but we are going to want all the model in the data that moves that refactor
the
it's going to take a second to run.
So now you can see that Nat has moved up there
No I copied that
and I did a refresh on those additional classes went away.
So sometimes when you're remodeling and clicking dragging stuff inside ontology the changes don't necessarily
happen right away.
So now we can see that I have the pet cleaning data I have the model.
The classes that we created already there for the model and then the application.
Now let's clean up this a bit.
And I am going to take away actuator and put that in to the Web.
And the JPA that is green and definitely be part of the model.
So I have to add that there.
And generally it's pretty easy to take these out.
So we definitely want the project Lombok and the database so those oh and put those in to the clinic
data.
Now give me a warning on the application.
So I am going to come up here.
I am just going package model.
Oh come on guys
bad refactor there.
So what I want to do is come here create new package
I'm gonna refactor that
and see here.
I'm getting a maven projects to be reinserted.
I'm going to click on a enable auto import and that is a setting that generally works pretty good inside
of ontology unless you get a really big project and you're on so hardware and then you might want to
turn that off because of re indexing can really bog down your system if you're doing a lot of changes.
But I'm gonna go ahead and enable that.
So automatically re index
and credit package here
and we'll move that into a proper package.
Let's go back to take a look at those palm.
So this has gone to these two dependencies will definitely be part of the web
and what we want to do here is our Web We Want to give that a dependency.
So now I am making the Pet Clinic Web have a dependency on I grabbed the wrong thing there
should be clinical data my mistake
and then we want to change this one's packaging OK so we are not necessarily being packaged his palm
which is exactly what we want
and let's take these last two dependencies and move those to web as well
and I'm going to copy over the test dependencies move out into Dade as well.
Now the one thing that we want to do here with our impact click data module is we want to package that
as a jar.
So what we want to do is come over here and grab the build plug in.
I'm just going to copy that for right now and take that up to the dead
and hear what we want to do is add in some parameters
in our executions execution and then the goals.
The goal of repackage what we want to do is give that a configuration stuff
so we can see their intelligently and total sense went along
super we're getting a warning it looks like it's okay now.
So let's go ahead and run this.
So I'm going to do a clean
and we can see that the pet clinic came first then data then web.
So let's go ahead and package this.
So we're running them having the whole package I'm running it right from inside of ontology.
And what this is going to do is first that's going to go in and compile everything and pet clinic and
then in data so pet clinics fairly empty now then Pet Clinic data.
That's where data types are and then web and we'll be building out the web module as we go forward and
then we can come in here.
If I go into the target folder of data we can see that it didn't build a jar and the whole reason I
did this configuration here is because by default Spring Boot is going to want to package a fat executable
jar.
So we'll include it in all the dependencies.
And in this example we want a jar with just dark classes in there.
And from this module without this we'd get a fat jar which it wouldn't do not want.
Now we have a lean jar with just our classes in it.
And what happens is when we build this project this jar is going to include in the jar from the the
pet clinic data.
So the pet cleaning Web is going to include the pet clinic data jar so just take a quick look here.
The new module resources.
We want to move those up to web.
Copy that.
And also we don't don't really need.
Application properties up there just yet.
And then our one test we can go ahead and move that to our Java test folder just refactoring
factor
to the test got moved up to the pet clinic web folder
and actually did not
do the directory move this time
so that as the result that we wanted I was just moving a little too quick on the refactoring there.
And here in the the root directory we really no longer need the source.
So when we have just a palm module that's best to just get rid of that so I'm going to go ahead and
delete him.
So now we can see that we have pet clinic data pet clinic Web
we're still declaring some properties in here.
We have empty dependencies tag I may refactor that.
Coming up in a future video but for right now I think this is looking pretty good so I am going to say
that we will refactor this coming up as needed.
But this establishes our multi module project.
So here you have a project top level is as a pet clinic.
Some people would call this parent as the parent Pom not.
I have two modules declared pet clinic data pet clinic web and see that the modules are here and not
as corresponding to this artefact I.D. and the dependencies I split up the dependencies based on what
we are going to need.
So the pet clinic data is going to handle all the data and so we will need H2 Spring Boot starter data
JP A minus girl eventually Lombok to annotate our classes we'll be seeing that in an upcoming video
and then some testing and then we had to bring in the Spring Boot maven plugin explicitly because for
this module we want to go in and reconfigure it to not repackage and again that's what we're doing right
here.
And the executions configuration the pet clinic web we will be building this out for the web application
so we'll be putting all the web stuff in there and we can see here.
We have a similar palm built out the first dependency I'm saying I want the data then actuate our time
leave start a web dev tools and then also test.
So we bring in all our dependencies for a typical spring web application.
And this concludes setting up a multi module project.
I'm going to go ahead and commit this and to get home so I'm going to come and click and say commit
directory and we can see that we have a bunch of changes that we are pushing
and again I'm getting is GitHub command closes.
No one is getting close out.
Issue number one and I'm just going to optimize imports and we'll do a commit and push in one swoop
I can get away with it because I am the only person working in this repository can see that the push
was successful.
Now if I come back over here we can see that it already went close so that that happened fairly quick.
So that is done.
And in the next video we will tackle another issue.
Don't touch me.
Right.
This is the update for Spring Boot 2 that I told you about at the beginning of the video.
So I've got the spring pit Pet Clinic project up right now.
And what I'm gonna do is I'm going to come up here and do a right click and go to get what I tell my
dogs quite often and get means go someplace else don't be here.
Let's see here.
And then we want to do show history on it.
And me try to expand this up a little bit and you can see the different chickens and I am on the pet
clinic data maven palm so just to orient you.
So we have the data web so we have the the parent palm and then I am in this Palm under Pet Clinic data.
So this is the one I'm showing the Maven history for.
And when I went and upgraded to Java eleven and this is in a future video where I show all the steps
to upgrade it a few things changed.
And one of the things I did and the parent as I update it to Spring Boot to that one and that changed
some things and in going through this also this configuration for the Maven SharePoint via plugin was
wrong and here this update here for the spring boot plugin.
What happened was we no longer needed to have this Skip configuration in here.
So let's see if we still have the plugin.
So we still have this and actually we can get a get rid of this section as well in hindsight.
So that this entire plugin configuration probably can go away but the key point is we were doing repackage
and we had a configuration property of skip that is no longer taking effect.
But what we need to do is come up here Spring Boot repackage Skip and set that property.
So if we go into property set this to Spring Boot package skip what's going to happen as we will see
this and actually recreate the air for you just in case.
So I mean come in here and uncommon are common that out and let's come over to maven
and I'm gonna come up to the data and let's run the package go on the I want to show you the error that
people have been seeing.
What's happening is what's maven is trying to do with Spring Boot is trying to do a repackage on it
and by repackage it's going to make that big goober jar or fat jar that's going to contain all the dependency
so it's trying to do the repackaging and looking for the Spring Boot main class to make an executable
jar and not finding it.
The problem is for data we want that to be a jar just a regular thin jar and not have to wait Goober
jar.
So by doing this by restoring this property.
And now if I run the package go on it and you'll see the piles normally.
So you can see that net comp. normally I'm gonna count this out one more time just to highlight the
error
so a lot of people have been running into this error.
You can see right here error failed to repackage and so on Harris was unable to find main class.
So in this section here unable to find main class and that's the problem that we're chasing down that's
what we are correcting in this video.
So by setting this property like so then we'll run that again mean I can complete normally.
So you just need to go into the palm if you're running on Spring Boot to doubt one spring in a new version
of the Spring Boot maven plug.
You need to set this property to skip the repackaging of it.